AAP-4697: Added traffic flow for ports and firewalls as well as new title (#514)
RedHatInsights/red-hat-ansible-automation-platform-documentation: downstream/modules/platform/ref-ports-firewalls-requirements.adoc

[id="ref-ports-firewalls-requirements_{context}"]

> = Ports and firewalls requirements

Reviewer: This title seems a little off to me tbh. Ports and firewalls are separate but related things. What about something like "Network ports and protocols" or maybe "Network traffic requirements"?

[role="_abstract"]

> {PlatformName} (AAP) uses a number of ports to communicate with its services. These ports must be open and available for incoming connection to the {PlatformName} server in order for it to work. Ensure that these ports are available and are not being blocked by the server firewall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{PlatformName} (AAP) uses a number of ports to communicate with its services. You must ensure that these ports are open and available for incoming connections to {PlatformName}.
```

Reviewer: Suggest compacting these sentences for minimalism. "in order for it to work" is superfluous imo.

Also when you say "server firewall" does that mean that AAP has it's own set of firewall rules? I would think "network firewall" might be a little more accurate here given that it's likely something that customers already have set up in their environment.

Author: @oraNod Thanks for this review. I used `server firewall` because the SME specifically asked for those words to be added so that the user knows what to look out for. Because of that, I will leave those two words and use your suggestions for minimalism.

.PostgreSQL
[options="header"]
|===

> |Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
```
```suggestion
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Usage
```

Reviewer: Global comment here but I won't make the suggestion for each occurrence. "Required for" seems odd to me like a dangling or unfinished phrase. When I read that it seems like there is text missing but maybe it's more obvious in the rendered table.

Author: Yes, I understand that it seems unfinished. However, that is the wording I saw in other tables across our CCS guides  as well as google docs created by the SMEs and stakeholders. If this is the language that they are using, then I want to keep it. Appreciate this comment.

.{ControllerNameStart}
[options="header"]
|===
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
|22
|TCP
|SSH
|Bi-directional
|`ansible_port`
|Installation

|80
|TCP
|HTTP

> |Incoming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Inbound
```

Reviewer: As a global comment I believe "inbound" and "outbound" are the conventional terms for network traffic directions. I think I got all the instances but would suggest maybe changing any others.

I also wonder about "bi-directional". Personally I would probably favour saying "Inbound and outbound" instead, even if it is more words. That makes it explicit and might help with international audiences. But I'll leave that to you.

Author: @oraNod Thanks for the suggestion. I will make those changes.

|`nginx_http_port`
|UI/API

|443
|TCP
|HTTPS

> |Incoming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Inbound
```

|`nginx_https_port`
|UI/API

|5432
|TCP
|PostgreSQL
|Bi-directional
|`pg_port`

> a|Open *only* if the internal database is being used along with another component. Otherwise, this port should not be opened

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a|Open *only* if the internal database is used along with another component. Otherwise, this port should not be open.
```

Hybrid mode in a cluster

|27199
|TCP
|Receptor
|Bi-directional
|`receptor_listener_port`

> |ALLOW receptor port across all controllers (for mandatory & automatic control plane peering)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ALLOW the Receptor listener port across all controllers for mandatory and automatic control plane clustering.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need "mandatory and automatic" there. My understanding is that port allows Receptor nodes to form clusters. Each Receptor node listens on that port for new joining nodes. It is mandatory in the sense that if you don't allow traffic through the port then nodes won't form a cluster. It's also automatic but I'm not sure that really adds anything here.

Author: The stakeholder included those words specifically to allow users of every technical level to understand. I will keep his wording, but revise sentence as you suggested. Thanks!

|===

.Hop Nodes
[options="header"]
|===
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
|22
|TCP
|SSH
|Bi-directional
|`ansible_port`
|Installation

|27199
|TCP
|Receptor
|Bi-directional
|`receptor_listener_port`
a|Mesh

> ALLOW connection from controller(s) to receptor port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ALLOW connection from controller(s) to Receptor nodes.
```

Reviewer: There are a few more instances of receptor (lowercase) that I think should be Receptor. 

https://github.com/ansible/receptor

Author: I was told that a Receptor node and a Receptor port are two different things. I am going with what the SME told me to use.

Reviewer: Yes, a node and a port are two different things. You connect to a node through a port.

.Execution Nodes
[options="header"]
|===
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
|22
|TCP
|SSH
|Bi-directional
|`ansible_port`
|Installation

|27199
|TCP
|Receptor
|Bi-directional
|`receptor_listener_port`
a|Mesh - Nodes directly peered to controllers. No hop nodes involved. 27199 is bi-directional for the execution nodes

> ALLOW connections from controller(s) to receptor port (for non-hop connected nodes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ALLOW connections from controller(s) to Receptor nodes (direct connections).
```

> ALLOW connections from hop node(s) to receptor port (if relayed through hop nodes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ALLOW connections from hop node(s) to Receptor nodes (relayed connections).
```

|===

.Control Nodes
[options="header"]
|===
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
|22
|TCP
|SSH
|Bi-directional
|`ansible_port`
|Installation

|27199
|TCP
|Receptor
|Bi-directional
|`receptor_listener_port`
a|Mesh - Nodes directly peered to controllers. No hop nodes involved. 27199 is bi-diretional for execution nodes

ENABLE connections from controller(s) to receptor port for non-hop connected nodes

> ENABLE connections from hop node(s) to receptor port if relayed through hop nodes

Reviewer: Same comments for these two sentences. `s/receptor port/Receptor node` and change "non-hop" to direct. It's either a direct connection or a relayed connection. "non-hop" sounds weird.

|443
|TCP
|Podman

> |Incoming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Inbound
```

|`nginx_https_port`
|UI/API
|===

.Hybrid Nodes
[options="header"]
|===
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
|22
|TCP
|SSH
|Bi-directional
|`ansible_port`
|Installation

|27199
|TCP
|Receptor
|Bi-directional
|`receptor_listener_port`
a|Mesh - Nodes directly peered to controllers. No hop nodes involved. 27199 is bi-directional for the execution nodes

ENABLE connections from controller(s) to receptor port for non-hop connected nodes

> ENABLE connections from hop node(s) to receptor port if relayed through hop nodes

Reviewer: Same comment as above.

|443
|TCP
|Podman

> |Incoming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Inbound
```

|`nginx_https_port`
|UI/API
|===

.{HubNameStart}
[options="header"]
|===
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
|22
|TCP
|SSH
|Bi-directional
|`ansible_port`
|Installation

|80
|TCP
|HTTP

> |Incoming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Inbound
```

|`nginx_http_port`
|User interface
|443
|TCP
|HTTPS

> |Incoming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Inbound
```

|`nginx_https_port`
|User interface
|5432
|TCP
|PostgreSQL
|Bi-directional
|`pg_port`

> a|Open *only* if the internal database is being used along with another component. Otherwise, this port should not be opened

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a|Open *only* if the internal database is used along with another component. Otherwise, this port should not be open.
```

|===

.Services Catalog
[options="header"]
|===
|Port |Protocol |Service |Direction |Installer Inventory Variable |Required for
|22
|TCP
|SSH
|Bi-directional
|`ansible_port`
|Installation
|443
|TCP
|HTTPS

> |Incoming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Inbound
```

|`nginx_https_port`
|Access to Service Catalog user interface
|5432
|TCP
|PostgreSQL
|Bi-directional
|`pg_port`

> a|Open *only* if the internal database is being used. Otherwise, this port should not be opened

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a|Open *only* if the internal database is used. Otherwise, this port should not be open.
```
